[Music]
so I'm Lauren and as a kid I lived in
this constant state of anxiety well I
still do but started when I was a kid
where I didn't know how I was supposed
to behave and what was appropriate to
say or not and it felt like I was always
about to get yelled at for saying the
wrong thing to Mister somebody or so so
and so and the rules seem like they're
always changing and I just wished I had
an older sibling that could show me what
to do
I didn't have one though so I'd just
hang around any older kids I could find
neighbors cousins strangers and I
remember my mom pulling me aside one
time and warning me to stop following
them around she says they have their own
friends we don't want to spend all their
time hanging out with a little kid but I
just love that they all seem to know
what to do that and following them kind
of offered me this relief from this
constant confusion of growing up I think
it's so easy to feel exhausted by
phrases like social media follower count
friend request and those of us that have
worked with agencies can't help us you
feel cynical when the number of social
media impressions is a single measure of
success of a project rather than the
sublime experiences we've been to art
and science to create and we realize
that we're not just doing the following
our apps and devices are following us
while this might have once given us a
comforting sense of acceptance and
belonging it's now overshadowed by an
Orwellian fear but even if you manage to
successfully delete your Facebook
account if you say Twitter's dead and
you're over slack I'm still not bears to
tell you that I'm a follower I just want
to follow you and I sometimes want to be
followed too so this is a series of
attempts to follow and some things that
I learned along the way so a few years
ago I was in a very meaningful and
intense relationship but also
particularly turbulent and it ended and
it was a sort of relationship where all
your friends and family tell you like
you seemed so unhappy they shouldn't be
so hard to what you answer you don't
know how it really is you don't know you
don't see only to realize later that
maybe they did see how it was and you
were the one that didn't so in my
hurting I wished for this device that
would protect me since I
are happening again it was in that early
moment of quantified self trackers and
promises of life-changing step counting
so in collaboration of comic novels we
made people keeper we only have so much
emotional bandwidth to bring it in
limited time what's the perspective of
our social circles are widening all
those relationships can be overwhelming
now there's an app people keeper tracks
your physical and emotional response
while you're hanging out and analyzes
the data to identify who stresses you
out makes you excited SAP for happy see
how your relationships stack up and let
people keeper find the ones that work
for you it'll automatically manage your
relationships so you don't have to
scheduling time with people that make
you feel good and blocking the ones that
don't forget fake friends failed romance
and FOMO optimize your social life with
people keeper yeah so the idea was an
actual app it would pair with any kind
of off-the-shelf heartrate monitor and
it would detect when you were starting
to feel an emotion and then it would
keep track of those things those
feelings and then give you kind of
analytics about who's making you feel
which emotion and how much and then take
action on your behalf deleting contacts
scheduling hangouts etc and the question
here is like it feels weird it feels
wrong right but what if what if a
computer can actually make better
decisions than you can what do you do
and who owns this data that exists
between two people what happens if it's
used and shared it doesn't matter how
whether that's for something good or for
something terrifying so we put a lot of
research into what it was actually
measuring is kind of like how sweaty are
very your heart rate variability so it
would the thing is when you are feeling
very calm your heartbeat
regular and when you start to get more
emotionally becomes very regular and
this is kind of a fight or flight
response sort of thing so we were to
tuck these periods and then kind of log
that is like you're feeling some strong
emotion try to identify which one and
who you're with and so we find ourselves
writing some code some pseudocode
something like what what should happen
exactly if anger is detected what's the
correct correct behavior and so this
here is kind of an absurdity right that
we see but yet I I'm really inspired by
devices that actually work in this realm
in an earnest way I've been inspired so
a long time by some of the work that
coming out of the affective computing
group at the MIT Media Lab this is a cue
sensor by the startup Affectiva which
basically was used for children with
autism spectrum disorders and they would
put these or spans on children and
detect when they're starting to feel
anxious and then as that kind of
escalated they would alert a parent or
teacher so that someone could come in
and kind of change the situation to try
and or doff that that outburst and so I
think most of us would say well that
sounds useful that sounds healthy and
helpful but then the question for me is
like how do we decide what this normal
is that we're trying to like shape
people towards who is to say that it's
the problem with the child that's
feeling stressed out and and not
something large about our society but in
some ways I always wish I could just get
one of these for myself something that
could alert other people when I was
feeling really socially stressed and
like warn them to get away from me
and I told this project a few years ago
General Motors streamed her heartbeat to
the internet and it suddenly made me
aware of just how personal this data was
that it's just your heartbeat but from
that I could tell like she maybe she's
working out and she's sleeping I noticed
it was very high and then later I found
out that she was actually pregnant at
that time so it's very revealing even
when it's something so simple as a
heartbeat and then at the same time
we've got researchers that are
determining that Twitter contains so
much information about your relationship
status you could actually build an early
break
predictor so it can tell you like go out
and buy some ice cream because like it's
going to get bad
I joined McNeil drew attention to this
idea of the emotional labor required in
all our interactions relationships
especially expected of women and so in
her browser extension you can write your
messages seriously as you like and then
with a click of a button add in all the
positive emotional extras for you so
this is point of confusion that a lot of
people have with people keeper and they
ask is this a critical app or is it
actually an optimistic vision of future
that I hope to see and the answer is
both or maybe neither but what we're
trying to do is like position this
directly in that space between the two
it's this ambiguous gray area between
you topic and dystopic pleasurable and
uncomfortable and I think this is a
space that we have to explore it's too
easy to kind of write things off one way
or the other but to really pick these
things apart we have to sit with them
for a minute and so this is one reason
that we would beyond just making a
hypothetical video and it's an actual
app that you can download and try so you
have to decide for yourself you want to
download it do you want to use it why or
why not and what happens if you do so we
tested this with a group of students at
Carnegie Mellon University where we are
doing a residency at the studio for
creative inquiry and they were really
good sports they were freshmen and
sophomores so they were kind of just
getting to college and figuring out how
how fun how their friends fit how they
fit how those relationships worked and
so they really kind of just without
thinking about it too much just tried it
for them around campus for a week we
gave him a special version that actually
took action on their Facebook because
that's where a lot of them were most
socially active so it could invite
people to event or post on other
people's walls in their behalf I just
wanted to share some of their their
reflections my name is miles Payton and
I'm a student and teenager I'm hoping it
will be informative about anything you
know kind of remind me like hey you
should pay attention to how you're
feeling around this person using the app
as a justification for not lying to
spend time with someone there's a lot
more definitive than like just saying
like I'm uncomfortable sorry informative
and sort of what I was doing and how my
interactions with people
we're either negatively or positively
affecting my day
well like the process of going on
Facebook and then like finding or like
stalking someone on Facebook and then
like suddenly singing like a post but
you didn't expect to be there by
yourself this sort of funny because it's
you know challenging your like
authorship like agency in that situation
well made me angry is the most thing
that stood out the most I think like oh
maybe I shouldn't hang out with mark
maybe it's kind of a dick up so we also
made workbooks than to try and guide
people through this process and we did a
second trial performance at the Science
Gallery in Dublin there's time with
older people and they had different
reactions which we explored and we
created these workbooks to kind of guide
them through the experience so I'll go
quickly but just want to show a few of
the pages the idea is that they would do
this over a week and then each day of
the week there was kind of like an
additional activity they were supposed
to do
and this is the key page I mean I think
admit a midst throughout their
technological development and social
discourse it's so easy to just miss
something new with this knee-jerk
reaction of like or dislike but the the
innovations and the changes that we're
seeing aren't so black and white so to
really move forward we have to engage
with the tensions and the questions it's
not an option to just say no I don't
want the future because it's coming
anyway so the goal of people keyboards
to create a space for this yeah
so speaking of kind of automating
interactions I'd always had this dream
and I can make like this computer
program that would I would just run it
and would instantly make a bunch of IRL
friends for me and I also love the
anticipatory feeling of accepting a new
facebook friend request knowing that I'm
about to spend like the night looking
through all their posts and photos back
to 2004 and so while I haven't come up
with this completely automatic friend
script yet this performance friend crawl
was perhaps an attempt at one version of
this so working with electric objects we
created this Kickstarter and for $5
backers could commissioned new work from
a few artists and for each of the 1,000
backers or more than 1,000 backers that
back to this Kickstarter I ran through
my program manually so I would spend
five minutes with each person trying to
get to know them better search through
all their social media feeds if we were
strangers or just acquaintances I would
kind of imagine that we were friends and
try to imagine myself to the world and
spending five minutes with each person I
performed for 10 hours a day non-stop
for a week and the performance was
broadcast live on the internet for
anyone to follow along and watch guida
board said the spectacle is a social
relation between people that is mediated
by an accumulation of images that serve
to alien of alien elia need us from a
genuinely lived life I kind of butchered
that quote but anyway my point is I
found that there was something a little
bit more genuine than perhaps he
believed when I did this exercise there
is this understanding and this empathy
that grew even as all the lives sort of
blurred together for me on this platform
and basically just became really
obsessed with the idea of following
people and
I kind of began this next project this
is sort of a trailer video for it
[Music]
wake up I get dressed I go out I do
think I read a magazine and I find out
about people why do I know about their
lives somebody should be knowing about
line.i
I want to share things with people I
don't want to have to talk to people and
tell them what I'm doing I think it'd be
great for them to see what I'm doing it
takes time to build relationships that
takes time to touch base with people so
I don't want another relationship I just
want to have a relationship with
somebody that he never had to talk to
him but they just follow me and see me
having a relationship with myself if I
if I knew somebody was following me
watching my life it might add some more
fun into my life I like to play doing
something for having fun for myself but
at the same time create a new experience
for somebody else I think I'm a pretty
positive person
I think that the things I do are with
consideration of other people
[Music]
who knows what company wants to see my
best self myself me maybe that will
spark something in them so the idea is
that follower is a service that provides
real-life follower for a day and in
order to be followed you answer two
questions why do you want to be followed
and why should someone follow you some
of the responses I got were things like
I believe my life has more of an online
importance than it does in real life I
get more excitement and happiness from
Instagram life than I do from physical
communication I would really like to
shift my presence from the online world
to the real world and having someone
follow me would give me some
clarification that my life in the real
world means more than online I live a
cloistered life in my apartment in
office and when I walk into the world I
feel completely covered in eyes as if
everyone was looking at me I know they
aren't but I want to know at least one
is so if you are selected you are sent a
link to download this app and when you
open it it just says waiting for a
follower and then one morning you wake
up and it says your follower is now
following you and your follower which
was actually me which they just out of
sight but kind of within your
consciousness so I would have a view
kind of like this so like the red thing
is the person and the blue thing is me
and I'm kind of like running down the
block behind them trying not to be seen
but they don't necessarily look know
what I look like so that was a
negotiation and then it would last the
entire day and at the end of the day you
would get one photo of yourself from
sometime during the day that I took with
the notification you're no longer being
followed so we're living this weird
anxious anxious time where on one hand
surveillance is pervasive and out of
control and on the other hand we have
this desire to be seen to be followed to
share every intimate detail of our lives
there are sites you can go to by online
followers if you feel you don't have
enough $10 can get you a thousand
followers
there's also sites you can go to figure
out how real your followers are what is
that desire really fulfilled by watching
your follower count take upwards and I
was wondering could a real
follower provide something more
meaningful or satisfying how do we
perform when we know I think someone is
watching and does that change when we're
talking about physical space or one
individual person versus a crowd
attention divided people online so also
follow our offers surveillance as a
luxury experience this is an app for
people who not only have nothing to hide
but need to be seen embedded in this
offer is the question who are the people
that don't have the privilege of hiding
of not being seen just because of who
they are or what they look like and then
surveillance has been happening for a
while
focus mainly on women now with the NSA
men are being watched too and it becomes
political this implicit distinction is
demonstrated in this headline where he
says just some women following you
around glossing over the implication
here that the alternative a man
following a woman would be completely
terrifying and happens very often also
how many times have you seen the words
just some man and any headline anywhere
it was a gig economy it seems we're
willing to try any app that provides us
something convenient novel or useful but
I think putting an interface between
people is risky it weakens your
connection to the person on the other
end so I really like this hashtag life
after chores as if the shore is like
disappeared but they're still being done
by a person it's just the person that
you don't see right or maybe if it's a
perfect want to seed and they could
actually handle anything for you like
sit on the beach and hold our fire pit
or I have a giant bug please kill it
these are real and these are advertised
these are real quotes that are used as
advertisements for word tasks craft
service and then with uber tasks of it
for example you push a button and you
watch as the person you summoned moves
towards your location on a map and so I
wanted to invert this so the person
being followed didn't track my location
I track them and when they get what they
get instead of a data point on a map is
the thought that there is a person there
watching them with Karen focus it was
also kind of a thing to actually get
this
into thee so get this into the app store
there's a like a few guidelines you have
to follow a few ways your app might get
rejected if you look at the scroll we're
only halfway through right there but
I'll cut to the good ones so if you get
to all those there's also this rule this
is a living document new apps present
new questions may result in new rules at
any time
perhaps your app will trigger this or we
will reject apps for any content or
behavior that we believe is of the line
what line you ask well as Supreme Court
Justice once said I'll know it when I
see it and we think that you will also
know when you cross it um so it's a
little bit of a uphill battle to get
something like this into the App Store
but I was persistent and so I it went
from emails to phone calls to
conversations with app store
representatives were there saying I
don't understand how this is art as you
claimed it sounds more like a social
experiment to me because it's trying to
say like it's not the deal it's just
like an art thing or then they had a
problem because my descript well with
the description that I put the app and I
said you need to explain to people why
they care want to do something you can't
expect them to just know or decide
themselves so they were telling me I
needed to like explain to people in the
description why they should get this out
um and so I found myself kind of trying
to argue on my behalf telling them about
things like the following piece by Vito
country where he would pick a random
stranger in public and follow them until
they entered a private space rest in
peace you know or Sophie called
address-book where she found an address
book on the street and spreaded going
through it page by page and locating all
the people that are listed and
interviewing them and asking them about
this person whose address book she'd
found trying to like piece together a
portrait of them based on their their
stories of this person this was without
the knowledge of the person who had lost
the address book and excited remise
connects for me to like how their do we
had Borg stranger visions where she was
going around the streets of Brooklyn in
New York picking up pieces of trash a
good cigarette butt or a piece of chewed
gum
the Janee DNA and then reconstructing a
portrait of what a person might have
looked like or Jill magic evidence
Locker where she was walking about
Liverpool for a month in this red jacket
with CCTV cameras trained on her and so
collaborating with the police she would
have them aim the cameras at her or
guide her as she had her eyes closed
moving to the city and then later
collected all this footage by filling
out subject access request forms which
she sort of filled out like a love
letter so this investigation of a system
as a sort of relationship partner and
ultimately I wanted to create different
sorts of interactions and relationships
that we when we have normally I'm
wondering as much as technology might
separate us at times because it also
bring us together in new and interesting
ways
and so I just wanted to share a few
photos of some of the people I followed
but titles are taken from their answers
to those questions about why they want
to be followed and the thing I find is
people always ask for like big stories
like what was it like to follow tell me
the most amazing moment but it was
really the little moments that move me
that first moment of catching sight of
my following was always really
exhilarating and surreal I tried to
maintain the right distance from the
person so that they might begin to
notice me by the end of the day if they
paid close attention so they could have
a similar strange and surreal experience
I didn't want it to be a complete
thought experiment so the person thought
they had the chance of seeing me I hope
that might further heighten their
awareness I love the moments where I
could be sitting one table over from
someone in cafe wondering if they were
wondering if I was their follower some
people I would follow on long walks and
adventures
while others would go straight to their
office and never leave while I sat
outside the building thinking about them
watching them move from room to room on
the map on my phone when I was doing
friend Carl I was overwhelmed by how
much people sort of blended together and
started to feel the same but in contrast
while I was physically following someone
so much of my attention was on them and
every little gesture felt interesting
and meaningful
I wasn't googling every facts ever
posted about them online I was instead
of watching them interact with the
cashier look for a place to sit on the
BART or choose something to eat and
trying to extrapolate a whole person
just from that so I want to talk now
about someone else I followed I started
following this person after described
discovering him online about five years
ago I followed him for a year across
various social media apps and email
lists until finally a year later I
received notification that he knew of my
existence and not only that he'd begun
following me back so I immediately
forward this to one of my best friends
letting him know I had unlocked an
achievement and thus began our
relationship it was a little hard at
first because one of the things that I
really liked about being single was his
feeling that I was anonymous especially
in New York I felt like I could kind of
drop off the map at any point and nobody
would know where I was or what I was
doing or holding onto me as a picture of
like a person that should exist but then
suddenly there's this person I was
following me around he's checking in
with me asking how is doing we're going
what I was thinking who I was I didn't
know how to reconcile this need to be
alone with the desire to also be close
to him so we devised the performance to
understand this better I'm all that I'm
nestdrop Kim had just come out I just
wanted to share this little video
[Music]
so we were sold we bought a few because
why not and we are thinking about this
idea of like the magic of home or
hashtag caught on Dropcam and wondering
like what does that what does it really
mean and when you're talking about home
service surveillance system are there
any boundaries like where where does
privacy play into that and do you want
all this this data and footage sent to
Google so for one week we cut off all
communication with each other our only
connection was a drop cam placed in each
of our apartments with the live feed
accessible to the other anytime we watch
this the video of our own face was also
captured implicating us in the watching
we call this project love in spy
agencies often referred to the various
types of intelligence collection with
the suffix of int such as SIGINT for
collecting signals intelligence or
communications or humans for human
intelligence or spying around that time
there were there was news of scandalous
lovin going on that is NSA employees
surveilling their loved ones most of us
generally have a negative reaction to
this idea or to surveillance and rightly
so but sometimes it's more complicated
than that what do you do when you're
dealing with an omniscient gaze of love
I'm interested in these alternative
relationships to surveillance and
tracking ones that aren't
black-and-white they don't start with
Snowden or the panopticon ones that
acknowledge that looking following and
keeping track of each other's an
integral part of relationships and
requires careful consideration in
negotiation so once we had done this
performance our relationship was off to
a good start but we realized there are
some tweaks that needed to be made still
so we we came with this idea called man
or women in the middle which is a
reference to a security attack where
data passing from one point to another
can be kind of like intercepted in the
middle and modify modified so we did is
we made a system for ourselves where
when we would text message each other
there was a layer of code that would run
and it would allow us to modify the
message either coming or going
programmatically and so each of us had
one section of the software that we
could modify that dealt with our own
messages so you can see Kyle's here was
a little bit more complex than mine but
there are things like it would look for
the phrase we should and it would just
automatically reply yeah
[Applause]
or if I wrote hi it would respond how's
it going I've been thinking about you
and then on my end I would just try I
was trying to be more positive so it
would replace anything I've sent that's
it I don't know - okay I would replace
whatever would share or whatever would
yes maybe was definitely hug with blank
space or a frowny face it would remove
completely and yeah so that that helped
um but there's this other problem once
you solve this one which is that um so I
was around 28 and something I found this
this thing that happened which is I
would just be walking down the street
like eating a bagel and something I was
like I need a baby I was like you know
sitting on my laptop working and I asked
like where's my baby and I was talking
to some other female friends of mine and
not all of them but some others around
my age had the similar kind of
experience the other thing we noticed
was that like our male partners were not
having that experience very much and
having trouble understanding ours and so
I devised this browser extension and I
thought you know Google and Facebook can
control you see and think why can't I
so working with Charlotte Styles we
tried to replicate that feeling of just
babies on the mind by I would this is an
extension you could install on your
partner's computer and without them
knowing it would sort of swap out text
filter add images etc it in an attempt
to kind of like get babies onto their
mind - or to make them think about it it
seemed to me like a little less devious
and like putting up into a condom or was
it in any case it was much less
effective because I didn't get the baby
which maybe it's okay for now um anyway
so you could you can get this from the
extension Google Chrome extension store
if you like
so it didn't it didn't give me a baby
but I did learn that maybe there's some
things you can't hack some things that
require talking compromise time and so
even if each of these little experiments
that I showed you where effectively
failures they serve some purpose as Kyle
and I were talking about software
architecture and server storage and cron
jobs we also have to talk about the
underlying lessons or reasons that we
did these projects in the first place so
as we encounter racist BOTS glitchy
intelligence broken tools I hope that we
can also embrace the potential for
conversation around these issues and
work together towards a less buggy
future I want to switch gears a bit for
this last part and talk about a
different way that I've been following
so I think it started in 2012 that I was
at a conference and I heard Zack
Lieberman who's the creator of a
software tool called open frameworks
speak on a panel about open source tools
and at one point he said if you're a
woman there's a spot at the table here
for you to before that moment I hadn't
ever thought about contributing to open
source I hadn't realized I wanted to be
a part of it mostly because I didn't
even consider that I could his words
began this journey for me that I'm still
on today and I think back to it often
because it made me realize how
significant and necessary a clear
explicit invitation could be so I was
excited I began trying to get involved
with some of these communities I joined
some mailing lists I started following
some repositories on github and the
thing I realized was that you really had
to kind of like elbow your way in to be
a part of the conversation around these
tools and for someone like me maybe it's
you know being a woman in a mostly male
space or maybe it's just me being shy I
didn't feel like I felt very comfortable
following my way in and I imagined other
people didn't either around the same
time I ran into Casey Reese who creates
another tool called processing I
mentioned this to him and I said I wish
there's something I could do to change
this but I don't feel like I'm going to
go be like some sort of women in code
activist or start a meetup or some whole
plan like that and talking to him he
made me realize like maybe you don't
need a whole plan you could just try and
get involved in whatever way you can
just do something and maybe others would
see that example and they might follow
so then a week later that that
opportunity came when he said so
speaking of you wanna work on processing
until after our conversation I felt like
I couldn't really say no so I was in and
my charge was to imagine processing
which is a creative coding tool that
works really well in the desktop to say
what would it look like you created it
today for the web so this was it I had
my big chance I had my in I was going to
participate in open source I was super
excited I started immediately and got to
doing like nothing nothing for a really
long time basically I was just I was
scared I didn't I barely understood the
question I doubted I knew anything in
terms of like how to do it and so I just
kind of sat on it until finally I think
Casey checked in with me again was like
hey how's it going and in the thing he
said was you know you don't have to have
the whole plan once again like just try
and do something like do something by
next week if you could so deadlines
deadlines are helpful too um so I did
and these were some of the first
experiments just getting some text on
the screen
just making some images up here I didn't
have a good sense of where it's going
but I just kept doing small things and
then at some point it got to a point of
almost parity with processing so you can
make graphics and 2d 3d you could work
with mobile web cam Arduino etc but it's
really important to me that this
question of what wood processing look
like today the obvious answer is Oh make
it with html5 make it with JavaScript
but for me another piece of that that
was really important was what happens if
we call diversity as a core value that
people don't feel like they have to
elbow their way in but they just feel
invited and how do we make this explicit
rather than implicit so the it was not
to take anything away from you know code
or communities of previous but to try
and build on them and just say you know
you don't need to be an expert expert
participate you don't have to elbow your
way in
being interested in willing to learn
should be enough so let's take what if
we take uncertainty as a starting point
and acknowledgement that we don't yet
understand everything and that we want
to learn together and this idea that
like no tools neutral tools are embedded
with the beliefs and the desires and the
biases of their creators and so if we're
talking about a tool for creative
expression it becomes even more critical
that we have a lot of different voices
in the process of building that tool it
can't just be a few developers making
all the decisions so we we did a lot of
exercises trying to expand the possible
uses we asked what else might we want to
express what else might we want to
encode and whose views are represented
here and can we throw out some of our
ideas about how it software is supposed
to work and see what happens when when
we give ourselves some freedom to
experiment and so later that year we
held the first p5.js contributors
conference and this was a time when
about 35 people kind ascended on CMU and
our goal was to work for a week on p5.js
and all along i've been saying like you
don't have to be an expert programming
like anyone should be able to
participate everyone is welcome I want
to be able to do something here and then
I was kind of like oh god like is that
really true I'm not sure all these
people are coming I don't know how it's
going to work yes I was terrified but
there and I thought like how am I going
to help all these people like I there's
just one of me what I realize is it just
really worked itself out you know I kind
of introduced things to start and then
people started like as soon as they
understood something they would teach it
to someone else
we had some rules like you have to be
willing to be interrupted with a
question at any point and that's not
always the most practical thing but for
this week that's the rule you can't wear
like large headphones you have to be
available and we just started kind of
mapping it out and letting different
people take leadership over different
parts I feel excited people were
teaching each other over half of
participants for women over but even
more exciting like over half made their
first contribution to an open-source
project here this is CC teaching Shar
who had just CC had just learned how to
like submit a pull request and she's
like teaching
someone else how to do it immediately
afterwards or Stephanie pie who gave
this great lecture on like how yeah you
know mentorship and and hard work is
important but access is like what we
need at the base without that we've got
nothing or Emily Chen doing research
into the Python community and trying to
bring back lessons and saying you know
we can't all suit assume that everyone
knows how to do everything we have to be
you know ok with people not knowing in
make that feel all right or Maya man was
going through the github issues of our
project in turn not even identified
places where the language worked really
well or places where we should do better
and out of that came this community
statement which has been really
important to us and the idea is to be
explicit to be really clear about who's
invited and you know how serious we are
about that and then practically what
does that mean as really excited to see
this one time this is so normally a
github issue it's often kind of a little
hostile and a lot of times like beginner
issues get closed with like you know
read the manual you didn't get it in
this case um I'll just put it again
so someone logs an issue and it's sort
of like he didn't quite understand how
to use library and then someone answers
it but then someone goes further and
says like oh the fact that you didn't
understand in the first place that's
like our bad how do we fix it and then
once they're sort of brainstorming until
it gets to the last comment where the
original posters like wow I feel like I
like added something to this project I
thought I would just feel like an idiot
and so that feels like a big big win for
me and these are the important moments I
think so along with Ben fries Casey
Reese the original creators of
processing Daniel Schiffman we created
or they created the processing
foundation and I joined them in 2014 and
now we also have Johanna hedva Ravi
spell and Jessi con Thompson working
with us the idea still I gives the
structure to expand on these ideas even
more and so one thing we've begun
recently is this fellowship program this
this is actually I would say to these
very fellows from last year but um we
just got a second round the idea is that
a fellow is someone that has some sort
of project of their own that's
related to expanding p5.js or processing
and in a specific community or in a
specific way and we sort of support them
in doing that and just to give you some
examples this is Louisa prera
who was looking at ways to help with the
education side of p5.js and so she made
this video that was just basically like
spelling out what all the different
files in the code repository are and
like how they fit together which is not
something that like a beginner would
understand at all but she did it in this
way that's very friendly and I sped this
video up but it it goes in a much more
reasonable pace or the digital citizens
lab which is sharon de la cruz leslie
martinez and evan wu which their project
was to create a creative coding platform
using p5.js where children can rewrite
or revision air ative by changing the
logic of events and the idea was to try
and make something that's directed
specifically towards children of
immigrants and people of color so using
characters that would be sort of
familiar and relatable for them this is
a project by celli jin who is doing an
interview series in like curating the
home page sketch with a series of Asian
women and gender non-conforming artists
this is the website she built to
highlight that just to give you a sense
of the project these are some of the
people she interviewed and some of the
sketches that have been made and if you
want to check this out you can actually
see it at diversity dot p5.js org this
is a project by chin chin yeh which is
up there right now and for each artist
that creates a sketch there's also an
interview that Shelley doesn't she post
the documentation our Claire Cooney
Volpe was working on accessibility to
p5.js for PCF and focusing on the blind
and seeing impaired you know this
question of what do you do if the hello
world program is a circle or blinking
LED shouldn't you be able to be a
creative coder if you can't see so she
would hold these workshops where people
would try to understand what that
experience of coding without vision is
like or in the left side here she's
introducing this high contrast mode that
we're adding to our web editor
forthcoming or on the left you can also
see on the right you can actually also
see some of the accessibility things
we're adding in terms of offering
different types of audio feedback while
you're coding so it doesn't have to be
primarily visual or taking shoot toys
finding coders project where he held
coding workshops and he taught them with
a site in language interpreter and with
each of these projects I always felt
this worry like what if we do it wrong
we don't have this whole plan what if
what if we insult someone what if we
just are totally off-base and what I
really realized from all these projects
is like you don't necessarily have to
have the whole plan you can follow the
lead of others you just have to listen
and so for example you know tane started
doing these workshops and he realized
sort of immediately that like it needed
to be a lot more physical and so the
second workshop he just reworked the
tools he was using to be much more
understandable as people in the workshop
and so for all of these this is a quote
at Chandler McWilliams introduced during
a panel we had at the contributors
conference and he said are the quote is
I in mind do not convince by arguments
similes rhymes we convinced by our
presence at some Walt Whitman so for me
it's about paying attention and
listening to someone being curious about
what they're doing how they're doing and
how you can work with them better I
think these things go such a long way
you know it's about showing up it's
about being present
I just left thanks thanks thanks thanks
Maggie thank you thank you thank you for
this the supercut always stand out so
many thanks for saying Greg this is the
thesis presentation thank you thank you
thank you thank you thank thank you
thank you thank you thank you thanks
thank you thank you thank you thank you
thank you idea thank you thanks thanks
so we have this idea of the brilliant
singular artists but what I see at ITP
and it seems to be the same in a lot of
these communities that were part of is
the acknowledgement that we follow each
other that we build on each other's
tools ideas words mistakes projects we
borrow remix remake and reinterpret
we don't always have a big plan but
we're not afraid to just try something
to follow and to be followed that's all
thank you
[Applause]